************************************************************************

1. Stereo Pipeline

The NASA Ames Stereo Pipeline (ASP) is a suite of free and open source
automated geodesy and stereogrammetry tools designed for processing
planetary and Earth imagery captured from satellites and robotic
rovers. It produces cartographic products, including digital elevation
models (DEMs), ortho-projected imagery, and 3D models. These data
products are suitable for science analysis, mission planning, and
public outreach.

Please install USGS ISIS version 3.4.10 if you would like to process
NASA non-terrestrial imagery. Users wishing to process Digital Globe,
GeoEye, or perspective imagery do not need to download anything else.

************************************************************************
2. Download

ASP releases for Linux and OSX can be downloaded at:

http://ti.arc.nasa.gov/tech/asr/intelligent-robotics/ngt/stereo/

The latest development builds (see the NEWS file for the most recent
additions) can be found at:

http://byss.arc.nasa.gov/stereopipeline/daily_build/

************************************************************************
3. LICENSE (see COPYING for the full text)

A. Copyright and License Summary

Copyright (c) 2009-2012, United States Government as represented by
the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration. All rights reserved.

ASP is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You
may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.

************************************************************************
B. Third-Party Libraries

This distribution may include some bundled third-party software as a
convenience to the user. This software, located in the "thirdparty/"
directory of the source code release, is not covered by the
above-mentioned distribution agreement or copyright. Binary releases
distribute third party software in both the "bin" and "lib"
directories. See the included documentation for detailed copyright and
license information for any third-party software or check the
THIRDPARTYLICENSES file. In addition, various pieces of ASP depend on
additional third-party libraries that the user is expected to have
installed.

************************************************************************
4. DOCUMENTATION

The primary source of documentation is the Stereo Pipeline Book. The
binary distribution contains the book, named "asp_book.pdf", and the
source distribution contains the LaTeX source of the book in the
docs/book subdirectory.

The book includes a gentle introduction to using the Stereo Pipeline,
as well as documentation for each of its tools. A copy of this
document in PDF format is also available from wherever you obtained
this package.

************************************************************************
5. CONTACTS & CREDITS

A. Mailing List

All bugs, feature requests, and general discussion should be sent to
the ASP user mailing list:

  stereo-pipeline@lists.nasa.gov

To subscribe to this list, send an empty email message with the
subject 'subscribe' (without the quotes) to

  stereo-pipeline-request@lists.nasa.gov

To contact the lead developers and project manager directly, send mail
to:

  stereo-pipeline-owner@lists.nasa.gov

Please do NOT use this second list for technical inquiries, which
should all be sent to the main stereo-pipeline list above.

B. Credits

ASP was developed within the Autonomous Systems and Robotics area of
the Intelligent Systems Division at NASA's Ames Research Center. It
leverages the Intelligent Robotics Group's (IRG) extensive experience
developing surface reconstruction and tools for planetary exploration,
e.g., the Mars Pathfinder and Mars Exploration Rover missions, and
rover autonomy. It has also been developed in collaboration with the
Adaptive Control and Evolvable Systems (ACES) group, and draws on
their experience developing computer vision techniques for autonomous
vehicle control systems.

See the AUTHORS file for a complete list of developers.

************************************************************************
6. Neo-Geography Toolkit

ASP is part of the Neo-Geography Toolkit (NGT), a collection of tools
for automated processing of geospatial data, including images and
maps. It is capable of processing raw raster data from remote sensing
instruments and transforming it into useful cartographic products,
such as visible image base maps, topographic models, etc.
Additionally, components of the NGT can perform data processing on
extremely large geospatial data sets (up to several tens of terabytes)
via parallel processing pipelines. Finally, it can also transform raw
metadata (i.e., SPICE kernels and PDS image labels), vector data
(e.g., 2D/3D shape files), and geo-tagged data sets into standard
NeoGeography data formats, such as KML. NGT is an evolving collection
of loosely connected open-source modules designed by the NASA Ames
Intelligent Robotics Group. Modules of the NGT will be released one at
a time, as they reach maturity. To date, we have completed only one
module: the NASA Ames Stereo Pipeline, but more will soon follow.
